There are two main datasets that we intend to use on our project. They are the United States Hate Crimes (1991-2018) <a href="https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/louissebye/united-states-hate-crimes-19912017">Dataset</a> that we found on Kaggle, and the US Cities <a href="https://simplemaps.com/data/us-cities">Database</a> found on SimpleMaps.  
The first dataset consists of all the hate crimes between 1991 and 2018, as reported by authorities at the state, city, county levels, and other entities such as college campuses and tribal officials. We will first filter the data in two ways: (a) extract entries of hate crime that occured between the years of 2010-2018, (b) filter those entries to hate crimes reported at the city-level only. We will then clean the data and remove unwanted variables, leaving the following: year of hate crime, state, city, offender’s race, bias/motivations (e.g. anti-Asian), and the severity or type of offense (e.g. aggravated assault).  
The second dataset contains the coordinates and populations of all the cities in America. An inner join was performed to combine the first dataset with the coordinates and population variables from the second dataset. From the analysis of the ‘cities’ from the first dataset that did not have corresponding rows in the second dataset, we found that they are mostly rural villages and townships, or college campuses that were coded wrongly. As such, we have decided that it is appropriate to remove those entries from the dataset altogether.  
Using the newly combined dataset, we intend to display the number of hate crimes in each city as a proportional symbol map of the US, where the number of hate crimes in each city is represented by a circle and the radius of the circle corresponds with the number. Under the map, there would be a slider for the user to denote the time frame for the map. The slider would come with two buttons to change the start and end years intended for the data on the map. The color of the circle could represent the marginalized group that fell victim to the highest number of hate crimes in each city.  
There would be buttons that allow users to toggle two other variables: hate crime motivations (e.g. anti-Asian or anti-LGBTQ) and severity or type of offense. For each type of variable, there would be separate layers which can be toggled on and off. There would either be a checkbox or buttons which would allow users to choose multiple options for each variable and the filtered data would appear on the map accordingly. However, both variables cannot be displayed at the same time. Only either one can be filtered and displayed at any time. 
